hello I'm Ge guruthi welcome to BBC News
now and we begin with the Israel Gaza
war and there is growing condemnation of
an air strike near Rafa which
Palestinian officials say killed at
least 45 people including women and
children at a refugee camp an Israeli
government spokesman says the initial
findings of its investigation are that
an air strike against a Hamas compound
nearby set off a fire which killed the
Palestinian civilians the Palestinian
presiden in the occupied West Bank
described the strike as a massacre and
accused Israel of deliberately targeting
displaced people Egypt has also
condemned the attack and called on
Israel to implement the order by the
international court of justice to Halt
its military offensive in Rafa French
president Emanuel macron says he's
outraged by the Israeli strikes on Rafa
and Qatar also says it could hinder
reaching a ceasefire deal well it came
just hours after Hamas said it had
launched a rocket attack on Tel Aviv on
Sunday several were intercepted by air
defense systems according to the Israeli
military Dan Johnson has this
report this was Israel's air strike late
last night in southern Gaza it says
targeting senior Hamas figures with
Precision weapons but look what it did
to the nearby camp where thousands of
Palestinians were Sheltering Israel says
it was striking legitimate Targets in
line with international law
but many of these people had already
been uprooted many times through this
conflict suddenly we heard the sound of
a missile fatty says we ran and found
the street covered in Smoke we couldn't
see anything then we found a girl and a
young man who'd been blown to
Pieces women and children are among the
casualties here in what they believed
was a safe humanitarian
Zone this morning Israeli drones
surveyed the damage as people questioned
how this could
happen we heard a very loud sound and
saw fire the kids were screaming and all
the rooms surrounding us were made out
of metal sheets the sound was
terrifying we set up our tents here and
it has been targeted they killed our
children and burned our women and
elderly in the place they claimed was
safe this is our seventh time being
displaced earlier yesterday Hamas
reminded Israelis it remains a threat
Tel Aviv came under rocket attack for
the first time in months there are
questions over Israel's military
strategy and an international Court
ruling against it Israel continues the
military action that has been asked to
stop also Hamas is launching Rockets
against Israel so both sides doesn't
respect the ruling of the world Israel
says a review will examine this loss of
life but it's Palestinians who count
their dead and wonder where in Gaza they
can find
safety Dan Johnson reporting well ABI
Hyman is a spokesman for the Israeli
government he explained the objective of
the Israeli strike on Rafa what happened
last night sadly there is no moral
equivalence between the two things what
happened last night as we went after two
high value Hamas targets and it appears
from initial report
that somehow a fire broke out and that
was uh that sadly took the the lives of
others now I say it appears too because
it is under investigation and the IDF
investigates every uh every accident of
this of this nature to see what actually
happened well Shaina from the Norwegian
Refugee Council in Jerusalem expressed
shock at the strike in Rafa we are just
a shocked as everyone seeing the images
coming out of of Gaza late last night
and early this morning this is a clear
sign of why the the um implementation of
the icj's order last week on halting
military operations in Gaza is in Rafa
is so
necessary uh it's it's it's truly
unconscionable to think that that you
know it's almost eight months into this
we are still seeing images of of women
children civilians being targeted and
killed um in such a way the head of
gaza's largest United Nations agency
unra Philip lazarini says the strikes in
Rafa are a reminder that nowhere is safe
in Gaza I cannot comment on the
casualties because we haven't been able
to properly communicate with our team on
the ground I saw images they are deeply
disturbing and
horrifying um I think we have been clear
more than once there is no safe space in
uh in
Gaza well we will go back to Dan Johnson
in a few minutes for an update on all
the very latest on events there